Add security required metadata, add required fields for Semgrep Registry, edit contributing rules article, many additional edits (#771)
returntocorp/semgrep-docs: docs/contributing/contributing-rules.md

:::

### Including additional details with rule metadatazs

Rules in the Semgrep Registry require specific metadata fields that ensure consistency across the ecosystem in both Semgrep App and Semgrep CLI. These fields help users of Semgrep to identify rules in different categories such as:

- High confidence security rules for CI pipelines.
- OWASP Top 10 or CWE Top 25 rule packs.
- Technology. For example `react` so it is easy to find `p/react` rule packs.
- Audit rules with lower confidence intended for code auditors

To help identify rules in these categories, the following list of metadata is required that enable the above categories:

- cwe
- references
- category
- subcategory
- likelihood
- impact
- confidence

An example of what this looks like can be found below:

- [High confidence JavaScript/TypeScript rule](https://semgrep.dev/playground/r/javascript.express.security.audit.express-open-redirect.express-open-redirect)
- [Medium confidence Python rule](https://semgrep.dev/playground/r/python.lang.security.dangerous-system-call.dangerous-system-call)

> - [Low confidence C# rule](https://semgrep.dev/playground/r/cs.lang.security.insecure-deserialization.fast-json.insecure-fastjson-deserialization)

Reviewer: @LewisArdern this rule does not include all of the required metadata fields we show in this document. Should we use another as an example here?

Author: yes they do?

Reviewer: ![Screenshot 2022-11-09 at 16 27 11](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/26669307/200871128-a0799235-d5e0-43db-8735-54acae9c4d63.png)

- https://semgrep.dev/playground/r/javascript.express.security.audit.express-ssrf.express-ssrf
- https://semgrep.dev/playground/r/javascript.express.security.express-xml2json-xxe.express-xml2json-xxe?editorMode=advanced

```
confidence: MEDIUM 
```

##### LOW

Low confidence rules generally find something which appears to be dangerous while reporting a lot of false positives. See examples below:

- https://semgrep.dev/playground/r/php.lang.security.eval-use.eval-use
- https://semgrep.dev/playground/r/javascript.browser.security.dom-based-xss.dom-based-xss?editorMode=advanced

```
confidence: LOW 
```

#### Likelihood

Specify how likely it is that an attacker can exploit the issue that has been found. The possible values are following:

##### HIGH

HIGH likelihood rules tend to be something which is easily reasoned with if found very likely to be a concern:

Some general examples include:
- The use of weak encryption
  - https://semgrep.dev/playground/r/go.lang.security.audit.crypto.use_of_weak_rsa_key.use-of-weak-rsa-key?editorMode=advanced

> - Disabled security feature in a configuration

Reviewer: @LewisArdern no rule attached to this list item.

Author: I dont think we have any good 'public rules' which highlight this.

- Hardcoded secrets that use `"..."`
  - https://semgrep.dev/playground/r/javascript.jose.security.jwt-hardcode.hardcoded-jwt-secret?editorMode=advanced

> - `taint mode sources` which reach a `taint mode sink` with `taint mode sanitizers`

Reviewer: @LewisArdern can I remove this line? Is this referring to something specific?

Author: - The use of weak encryption: https://semgrep.dev/playground/r/go.lang.security.audit.crypto.use_of_weak_rsa_key.use-of-weak-rsa-key?editorMode=advanced
- Disabled security feature in a configuration: https://semgrep.dev/playground/r/javascript.angular.security.detect-angular-sce-disabled.detect-angular-sce-disabled
- Hardcoded secrets that use a constant value `"..."`: https://semgrep.dev/playground/r/javascript.jose.security.jwt-hardcode.hardcoded-jwt-secret?editorMode=advanced
- Rules which leverage `taint mode sources` which indicate they can come from an attacker e.g. HTTP POST/GET/PUT/DELETE Request values: https://semgrep.dev/playground/r/javascript.express.security.audit.express-open-redirect.express-open-redirect

Author: i made a PR to chaneg likelihood to HIGH on sce-disabled so its fine

  - https://semgrep.dev/playground/r/javascript.express.security.express-puppeteer-injection.express-puppeteer-injection?editorMode=advanced

```
likelihood: MEDIUM 
```

##### LOW

LOW likelihood rules tend to be which tends to be security rule which finds 'something' dangerous, but does not do anything to ensure it is  vulnerable, for example:

- `taint mode sources` such as function arguments which may or may not be tainted which reach a `taint mode sink`
  - https://semgrep.dev/playground/r/typescript.react.security.audit.react-href-var.react-href-var?editorMode=advanced
- A rule which uses `search mode` to find the use of a dangerous function e.g. trustAsHTML, bypassSecurityTrust(), eval(), or innerHTML
  - https://semgrep.dev/playground/r/javascript.browser.security.dom-based-xss.dom-based-xss?editorMode=advanced

```
likelihood: LOW 
```

#### Impact

Including an impact indicator tells users and Semgrep App about the rule impact, and how much 'damage' would this vulnerability would cause to the application, we use LOW, MEDIUM, and HIGH indicators:

- SQL Injection vulnerabilities

> - 

Reviewer: @LewisArdern maybe we missed some other list items here.

Author: i think they are explained further below.

## Contributing through GitHub

Fork our repository and make a pull request; we'll contact you about signing our Contributor License Agreement (CLA). Install pre-commit (see [installing pre-commit](#installing-pre-commit)) and make a pull request to the [Semgrep Registry](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep-rules) with two files:
1. The semgrep pattern (as YAML file).
2. The test file (with the file extension of the language or framework). The test file must contain at least one true positive and one true negative test case to be approved. See the [Tests](#tests) section of this document for more information.

See an example of a [pull request](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep-rules/pull/1728/files) to the Semgrep Registry. Pull requests require the approval of at least one maintainer and successfully passed [CI jobs](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep-rules/actions).

Find more about the Semgrep Registry by reading the [Rule writing](#rule-writing) and [Tests](#tests) sections.

## Rule requirements

Every rule submitted to Semgrep Registry must include:

> - Rule ID - `ruleid`. Rule ID is created automatically by Semgrep App, but include it if you are contributing solely through GitHub without Semgrep App.

Author: this does not apply the note if they do it via cli.

Reviewer: @LewisArdern not sure that I understand...

- Test file. See [Tests](#tests) for more details. Test file must include:
    - Code that Semgrep detects using the rule.
    - Code that is clearly shown as `ok` and Semgrep should not detect it.
- Rule message, for more information see [Rule messages](#rule-messages).

> - Severity TODO

Reviewer: @LewisArdern as discussed, please fill in the required fields for Semgrep Registry rules in general (Technology, Severity, not sure what all are we missing). I will convert this list to a table later.

Also documenting optional fields might be a task for another PR...

Let me know if this list is ok for now, we should also provide a rule ID definition - can it be: `Rule ID is a unique identifier of a rule in Semgrep Registry.` How to create a unique rule ID when contributing only through GitHub?

Author: It shouldn't matter what people call their rule, because the way the registry produces rules is based on 

filename.yaml -> id: test
filename1.yaml -> id:test

These would be

filename1.test
filename.test 

^ which would be unique in the registry. 

So in general they just need to write a meaningful name for the ID as it stands today.

Author: I updated the technology and reference, that should cover most of it.

## Contributing through GitHub

Fork our repository and make a pull request; we'll contact you about signing our Contributor License Agreement (CLA). Install pre-commit (see [installing pre-commit](#installing-pre-commit)) and make a pull request to the [Semgrep Registry](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep-rules) with two files:
1. The semgrep pattern (as YAML file).
2. The test file (with the file extension of the language or framework). The test file must contain at least one true positive and one true negative test case to be approved. See the [Tests](#tests) section of this document for more information.

See an example of a [pull request](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep-rules/pull/1728/files) to the Semgrep Registry. Pull requests require the approval of at least one maintainer and successfully passed [CI jobs](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep-rules/actions).

Find more about the Semgrep Registry by reading the [Rule writing](#rule-writing) and [Tests](#tests) sections.

## Rule requirements

Every rule submitted to Semgrep Registry must include:

> - Rule ID - `ruleid`. Rule ID is created automatically by Semgrep App, but include it if you are contributing solely through GitHub without Semgrep App.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Rule ID is created automatically by Semgrep App, but include it if you are contributing solely through GitHub without Semgrep App. Use a meaningful name for the rule ID. Example: `- id: detect-angular-sce-disabled`
```

Find more about the Semgrep Registry by reading the [Rule writing](#rule-writing) and [Tests](#tests) sections.

## Rule requirements

Every rule submitted to Semgrep Registry must include:

<dl>
    <dt>Rule ID</dt>
    <dd>Rule ID is created automatically by Semgrep App, but include it if you are contributing solely through GitHub without Semgrep App. Use a meaningful name for the rule ID. Example: <code>- id: detect-angular-sce-disabled</code>.
    </dd>
    <dt>Test file</dt>
    <dd>Test file in the language that the rule is targeting. See <a href="#tests"> Tests</a> for more details.</dd>
    <dt>Rule message</dt>
    <dd>Include details about the matched pattern and inform about mitigation of any related issues. See <a href="#rule-messages"> Rule messages</a> for more details.</dd>
    <dt>Languages</dt>
    <dd>Specify for which languages or language is the rule meant. For example:
    <pre>
    languages:<br />
    - javascript<br />
    - typescript
    </pre>
    </dd>
    <dt>Severity</dt>

>     <dd>TODO - Description of severity is. Possible values: <code>INFO</code>, <code>WARNING</code>, <code>ERROR</code>, <code>INVENTORY</code></dd>

Reviewer: One of the last tasks here. :) Please @LewisArdern, describe what severity is and what values should be used... I checked semgrep-rules codebase to see some, but I am not sure what exactly these values mean (INFO, WARNING, ERROR, INVENTORY) - is inventory intended for end users?

:::

### Including additional details with rule metadata

Rules in the Semgrep Registry require specific metadata fields that ensure consistency across the ecosystem in both Semgrep App and Semgrep CLI.

Nest these metadata under the `metadata` key. The following metadata are required:

<table>
  <thead><tr>
   <th>Required metadata field</th>
   <th>Possible values</th>
   <th>Example use</th>
  </tr></thead>
  <tbody>
  <tr>
   <td>CWE</td>
   <td>A <a href="https://cwe.mitre.org/index.html">Comment Weakness Enumeration (CWE)</a>.</td>
   <td><pre>cwe: "CWE-502: Deserialization of Untrusted Data"</pre></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Confidence</td>
   <td><code>HIGH</code>, <code>MEDIUM</code>, <code>LOW</code></td>
   <td><pre>confidence: MEDIUM</pre></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Likelihood</td>
   <td><code>HIGH</code>, <code>MEDIUM</code>, <code>LOW</code></td>
   <td><pre>likelihood: MEDIUM</pre></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Impact</td>
   <td><code>HIGH</code>, <code>MEDIUM</code>, <code>LOW</code></td>
   <td><pre>impact: HIGH</pre></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Subcategory</td>
   <td><code>vuln</code>, <code>audit</code>, <code>guardrail</code></td>
   <td>
    <pre>

>         subcategory:<br />

Reviewer: @LewisArdern We have a description of the Subcategory, but we have not included a description of the Category.

Include a subcategory to explain what is the type of the rule. See the subsections below for more details.

##### vuln

A vulnerability rule is something that developers certainly want to resolve. For example, an SQL Injection rule that uses taint mode. Example:

- <LinkToRegistryRule ruleId="javascript.sequelize.security.audit.sequelize-injection-express.express-sequelize-injection" />

```
subcategory:
  - vuln
```

##### audit

An audit rule is useful for code auditors. For example, an SQL rule which finds all uses of the `database.exec(...)` that can be problematic. Example:

- <LinkToRegistryRule ruleId="generic.html-templates.security.unquoted-attribute-var.unquoted-attribute-var" />

```
subcategory:          
  - audit
```

##### guardrail

A guardrail rule, is useful for companies writing custom rules. For example, finding all usages to non-standard XML parsing libraries within the company. The rule can also bring a message that a developer can use only a company-approved library.

```
subcategory:
  - guardrail
```

#### Technology

Any additional information about the technology that gives context to user of the rule. This helps to specify rulesets in Semgrep Registry.

> TODO - add rejpresentative rule examples.

Reviewer: @LewisArdern last TODO, please, what rule you would like to show here as a representative example? 🙂

> TODO - add rejpresentative rule examples.
> 
> ```yaml
> technology:
> - react
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion

- <LinkToRegistryRule ruleId="javascript.express.security.audit.express-open-redirect.express-open-redirect" />

```yaml
technology:
  - express
```
```

<table>
  <thead><tr>
   <th>Metadata field</th>
   <th>Possible values</th>
   <th>Example use</th>
  </tr></thead>
  <tbody>
  <tr>
   <td>CWE</td>
   <td>A <a href="https://cwe.mitre.org/index.html">Comment Weakness Enumeration (CWE)</a>.</td>
   <td><code>cwe: "CWE-502: Deserialization of Untrusted Data"</code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Confidence</td>
   <td><code>HIGH</code>, <code>MEDIUM</code>, <code>LOW</code></td>
   <td><code>confidence: MEDIUM</code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Likelihood</td>
   <td><code>HIGH</code>, <code>MEDIUM</code>, <code>LOW</code></td>
   <td><code>likelihood: MEDIUM</code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Impact</td>
   <td><code>HIGH</code>, <code>MEDIUM</code>, <code>LOW</code></td>
   <td><code>impact: HIGH</code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Subcategory</td>
   <td><code>vuln</code>, <code>audit</code>, <code>guardrail</code></td>
   <td><code>subcategory:
  - vuln</code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>References</td>
   <td>Any additional information that gives more context to the user of the rule. This helps to specify rule packs in Semgrep Registry.</td>
   <td><code>references:
      - react</code></td>
  </tr>
  </tbody>

> </table>

Reviewer: @LewisArdern how do you like this table? Is it fine in its current state?

<img width="896" alt="Screenshot 2022-11-09 at 18 00 00" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/26669307/200893402-3d806064-c585-4fc4-a65c-a40fa858acfe.png">
